# Weekly report for third development week

- Hours spent: 8

- Work on understanding and implementing Huffman coding.

- Start and implement Huffman compression and decompression. Have some tests (it was hard to find proper example input -> output mappings of Huffman online so I had to result to generating my own).

- Learned the basic principles behind huffman coding. (The algorithm requires a frequency analysis and list of the characters in the input, builds a binary tree that is used as the "encoding dictionary" and decoding dictionary, the specific dictionary is required for decoding.)
    - Huffman decompression seems to be `n log n` with the common implementation, because the coding bin tree needs to be traversed for every symbol decoded. There probably are improvements built upon the basic Huffman addressing this and some other pain points.

- None of the pseudo code examples I could find online had phase of huffman coding where the bintree is used to encode the input string. So I basically did it as reverse of the decompression process except since we can pre-know the symbol lengths it is only an O(n) operation.
    - This seems to make the whole implementation I currently have of the encoding an O(x + n) operation where x is the size of the character set and n is the input length.

- Next I will be finishing the huffman decoding and prepairing for the first peer reviews by improving the user guide, adding a command line interface for the huffman module and commenting the code where necessary.
